README.md, before:

Compares all DBBS models in Arbor and NEURON

# Local plotting replication

Following these steps allows you to plot one, more or all the plots as seen in https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.03.02.482285v1.full

The plots use intermediate data, stored in pickles (a binary Python data format). The pickles reduce the dependencies required to run the plots,
and drastically reduce the time spent to plot them. If you want to replicate the findings from start to finish, you'll have to follow the [Large scale simulation replication](#large-scale-simulation-replication) instructions, delete the pickles in your local repo, and replace the files in the `results` folder with your own results.

1. Set up a plotting environment

```
cd $HOME
python -m venv arbnrn-plotenv
source arbnrn-plotenv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd arbnrn-plotenv
git clone git@github.com:Helveg/arbor --recurse-submodules
cd arbor && git checkout aba80a93b169bee93aa693c0d612bd7f66b7e5dc && cd ..
```

2. Build `arbor`:

```
# Not required if you already have MPI libs installed.
sudo apt update && sudo apt install libopenmpi-dev openmpi-bin
mkdir arbor/build
cd arbor/build
cmake .. \
  -DARB_WITH_MPI=ON \
  -DARB_WITH_PROFILING=OFF \
  -DARB_USE_BUNDLED_LIBS=ON \
  -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/arbnrn-plotenv \
  -DARB_WITH_PYTHON=ON \
  -DARB_VECTORIZE=ON
make install -j
cd $HOME
```

3. You can now plot or write the plots to file using the `plot` and `build` wrappers, respectively, from the repo root:

```
# Plot some plots
python plot <name1-of-file-in-plots-folder-without-extension> <name2> <name3>
# Plot all the plots
python plot
# Write some plots to a certain format
python build <format:html,jpg,svg,png,eps> <name1> <name2>
# Write all the plots
python build

# Examples
python plot spikes single_cell
python build html
```

# Large scale simulation replication

A no warranty list of steps to reproduce the findings in https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.03.02.482285v1.full

These steps work on PizDaint, which uses [`slurm`](https://slurm.schedmd.com/documentation.html) for job management and [`modules`](http://modules.sourceforge.net/) for environment management.

1. Create separate environments for the Arbor and NEURON toolchains

```
cd $HOME
python -m venv arbenv
python -m venv nrnenv
```

2. Activate the Arbor venv:

```
source $HOME/arbenv/bin/activate
```

3. Clone the arbor environment toolchain

```
cd arbenv
git clone git@github.com:Helveg/arbor --recurse-submodules
cd arbor && git checkout aba80a93b169bee93aa693c0d612bd7f66b7e5dc && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:dbbs-lab/arborize
cd arborize && git checkout 2ab8e26050782c5ce218114e50ceb550ad94b751 && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:Helveg/bsb-1 bsb
cd bsb && git checkout 1cf5a247927b52a54f870f3f2680cd9f947a8d3f && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:dbbs-lab/catalogue
cd catalogue && git checkout eb2eaee1d0563dfdca0692514ae2e25650578156 && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:dbbs-lab/glia
cd glia && git checkout 5442e9e1485cab643b4a422449f338e7c6e8b5b5 && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:dbbs-lab/models
cd models && git checkout 5174d0e41efcb44c605f8e08992a6002733740dd && cd ..
```

3. Install the Python tools (in this order!)

```
CC=cc CXX=CC pip install mpi4py
pip install -e bsb
pip install -e models
pip install -e catalogue
pip install -e arborize
pip install -e glia
```

4. Build `arbor`:

```
mkdir arbor/build
cd arbor/build
module load daint-gpu cudatoolkit CMake gcc/9.3.0
module switch PrgEnv-cray PrgEnv-gnu
CC=cc CXX=CC cmake .. \
  -DARB_WITH_MPI=ON \
  -DARB_WITH_PROFILING=OFF \
  -DARB_GPU=cuda \
  -DARB_USE_BUNDLED_LIBS=ON \
  -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/arbenv \
  -DARB_WITH_PYTHON=ON \
  -DARB_VECTORIZE=ON
make install -j 8
cd $HOME
```

You can now replicate Arbor instructions.

5. Activate the NEURON environment

```
source $HOME/nrnenv/bin/activate
```

6. Install NEURON and the toolchain:

```
pip install -e $HOME/arbenv/bsb[neuron]
pip install NEURON==8.1 dbbs-models==1.5.0rc0 arborize==2.0.0b8
```

Commit message:

Updated local plotting env README

README.md, after:

Compares all DBBS models in Arbor and NEURON

# Local plotting replication

Following these steps allows you to plot one, more or all the plots as seen in https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.03.02.482285v1.full

The plots use intermediate data, stored in pickles (a binary Python data format). The pickles reduce the dependencies required to run the plots,
and drastically reduce the time spent to plot them. If you want to replicate the findings from start to finish, you'll have to follow the [Large scale simulation replication](#large-scale-simulation-replication) instructions, delete the pickles in your local repo, and replace the files in the `results` folder with your own results. The single compartment and single cell pickles can be generated by running the scripts in the `remote` folder, in the full simulation env,
and transferring the pickles to your plotting env.

1. Set up a plotting environment

```
cd $HOME
python -m venv arbnrn-plotenv
source arbnrn-plotenv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. You can now plot or write the plots to file using the `plot` and `build` wrappers, respectively, from the repo root:

```
# Plot some plots
python plot <name1-of-file-in-plots-folder-without-extension> <name2> <name3>
# Plot all the plots
python plot
# Write some plots to a certain format
python build <format:html,jpg,svg,png,eps> <name1> <name2>
# Write all the plots
python build

# Examples
python plot spikes single_cell
python build html
```

# Large scale simulation replication

A no warranty list of steps to reproduce the findings in https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.03.02.482285v1.full

These steps work on PizDaint, which uses [`slurm`](https://slurm.schedmd.com/documentation.html) for job management and [`modules`](http://modules.sourceforge.net/) for environment management.

1. Create separate environments for the Arbor and NEURON toolchains

```
cd $HOME
python -m venv arbenv
python -m venv nrnenv
```

2. Activate the Arbor venv:

```
source $HOME/arbenv/bin/activate
```

3. Clone the arbor environment toolchain

```
cd arbenv
git clone git@github.com:Helveg/arbor --recurse-submodules
cd arbor && git checkout aba80a93b169bee93aa693c0d612bd7f66b7e5dc && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:dbbs-lab/arborize
cd arborize && git checkout 2ab8e26050782c5ce218114e50ceb550ad94b751 && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:Helveg/bsb-1 bsb
cd bsb && git checkout 1cf5a247927b52a54f870f3f2680cd9f947a8d3f && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:dbbs-lab/catalogue
cd catalogue && git checkout eb2eaee1d0563dfdca0692514ae2e25650578156 && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:dbbs-lab/glia
cd glia && git checkout 5442e9e1485cab643b4a422449f338e7c6e8b5b5 && cd ..
git clone git@github.com:dbbs-lab/models
cd models && git checkout 5174d0e41efcb44c605f8e08992a6002733740dd && cd ..
```

3. Install the Python tools (in this order!)

```
CC=cc CXX=CC pip install mpi4py
pip install -e bsb
pip install -e models
pip install -e catalogue
pip install -e arborize
pip install -e glia
```

4. Build `arbor`:

```
mkdir arbor/build
cd arbor/build
module load daint-gpu cudatoolkit CMake gcc/9.3.0
module switch PrgEnv-cray PrgEnv-gnu
CC=cc CXX=CC cmake .. \
  -DARB_WITH_MPI=ON \
  -DARB_WITH_PROFILING=OFF \
  -DARB_GPU=cuda \
  -DARB_USE_BUNDLED_LIBS=ON \
  -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/arbenv \
  -DARB_WITH_PYTHON=ON \
  -DARB_VECTORIZE=ON
make install -j 8
cd $HOME
```

You can now replicate Arbor instructions.

5. Activate the NEURON environment

```
source $HOME/nrnenv/bin/activate
```

6. Install NEURON and the toolchain:

```
pip install -e $HOME/arbenv/bsb[neuron]
pip install NEURON==8.1 dbbs-models==1.5.0rc0 arborize==2.0.0b8
```
